README.md, before:

# heroes_map_generator
Generates random templates for Heroes 3 HotA map generator for a more 'random' user experience

# To Do
- Generate initial values for zones - DONE
- Generate initial values for connections - DONE
- Generate starting areas for players or players + AI - DONE
    - add computer player zones into main graph - DONE
- Generate fair main grid - DONE
- Print template to file - DONE
- generate template values
- starting zones connect to main branch using same node - DONE
- starting zones and AI zones in balanced mode use same Link attributes - DONE
- Global AI players use fair Links
- balanced mode has a chance for a star NODE connecting to all base fragments
- starting areas for Humans - add rules for origin castle (same/different)
- change monster strenght for zones that connect with JUNCTION

# Variables description

## Nodes

### mines

Next batch of variables:

wood_min
mercury_min
ore_min
sulfur_min
crystals_min
gems_min
gold_min


wood_min and ore_min should be 0 by default and set to 1 for START type of zones
if any zone has neutral_towns_min > 0 then 50% chance that wood_min and ore_min is 1, otherwise 0. if a zone has neutral_castle_min > 0 then it always has wood_min and ore_min set to 1

for mercury_min, sulfur_min, crystals_min and gems_min - by default all of these are 0. 10% for one of them to be 1 for START zone. 25% for NEUTRAL zone that one of them has a value of 1. In TREASURE ZONE each one of them has 20% chance to be 1, but no more than 2 in total. In SUPER_TREASURE, each one has 25% chance to be 1 with no total limit.

gold_min - 0 by default. 5% to be 1 for NEUTRAL zone, 10%  to be 1 in TREASURE zone and 20% in SUPER_TREASURE zone

All density variables should be set to '0':
wood_density
mercury_density
ore_density
sulfur_density
crystals-density
gems_density
gold_density

### terrain and monsters

Another batch of parameters:
terrain_match_town - 1 in START zone, in any other zone, if neutral_towns_min > 0 or neutral_castle_min > 0 it has 80% chance to be 1, else 0
allowed_terrain[1-10] - ten variables for possible terrain types, placeholder for future use. All set to 1
monster_strenght - possible values are 0-3. Should be 2 for START zone. 80% to be 2 in TREASURE zone, otherwise 3. 70% to be 2 in SUPER_TREASURE zone, otherwise 3. Always 2 in JUNCTION zone
monster_match_town - 0 in START zone, in any other zone, if neutral_towns_min > 0 or neutral_castle_min > 0 it has 10% chance to be 1, else 0
allowed_monster_type[1-12] - twelve variables for possible allowed monster types. Placeholder for future use. All set to 1

### treasures

* treasure1_low - 500 for START and NEUTRAL zone, 3000 for TREASURE, 10000 for SUPER_TREASURE
* treasure1_high - 3000 for START and NEUTRAL zone, 6000 for TREASURE, 15000 for SUPER_TREASURE
* treasure1_density - 9
* treasure2_low - 3000 for START and NEUTRAL zone, 10000 for TREASURE, 15000 for SUPER_TREASURE
* treasure2_high - 6000 for START and NEUTRAL zone, 15000 for TREASURE, 20000 for SUPER_TREASURE
* treasure2_density - 6
* treasure3_low - 10000 for START and NEUTRAL zone, 15000  for TREASURE, 20000 for SUPER_TREASURE
* treasure3_high - 15000 for START and NEUTRAL zone, 20000 for TREASURE, 30000 for SUPER_TREASURE
* treasure3_density - set to 1

in case of JUNCTION type - assign values as if it was NEUTRAL or TREASURE (50/50 chance)

All low/high values above should be slightly randomized (+/- 10%, but should remain integers)

* zone_placement - set to 0
* objects_section - should be empty

### Misc

final batch of parameters for zones:

* UI_position_[1-4] - 4 values that can be negative or positive float type. Placeholder for future use. Set to empty.
* zone_faction_force_neutral - set to empty
* allow_non_coherent_road - 75% to be empty, otherwise set to 'x'
* zone_repulsion - set to empty 
* town_type_rules - set to empty
* monster_disposition - 25% to be 1, 50% to be 2, 25% to be 3
* custom_monster_disposition - set to empty
* joining_percent - set to 1
* join_only_for_money - set to 'x'
* shipyard_min - 10% to be 1 in SUPER_TREASURE zone, empty in all other cases
* shipyard_density - set to empty
* terrain_type_rule - set to empty
* customized_allowed_factions_bitmap - set to empty
* zone_faction_rule - set to empty
* max_road_block_value - 4000 for START zone, otherwise empty

monster_disposition, joining_percent and join_only_for_money variables should have an option to be provided manually during script execution - in such case the provided value should overwrite the default value provided here

## Links

Variables in order of appearance:
'-' means empty (/t) value
Starts right after Zones section, on 2nd line of Zones

* Zone A (int)
* Zone B (int)
* guard_strenght - integer. If one of the zones is START zone then: 3000 - 4000 if the other one is NEUTRAL or JUNCTION, 5000 - 7000 if TREASURE, 8000-12000 if SUPER_TREASURE. It should also be +3000 if the connection happens to be between player starting area and main part of the map if possible. 
for all other connection between zones. Rule of thumb is: the more valuable the ZONES, the higher number, and it should be especially high if one of the zone is NEUTRAL and the other is SUPER_TREASURE. Max value should be 25000 
* connection_type_wide - always empty if one of the zones is SUPER_TREASURE, otherwise, 90% to be empty, otherwise '1'
* connection_type_borderguard - always empty
* roads - '+' if one of the zones is START, otherwise 75% chance to be '+', 25% to be '-'
* placement_hint - should be set to 'random'
* connection_type_fictive - always empty
* monolith_repulsion - 20% to be 1, otherwise empty
* human_players_min - 1
* human_players_max - 8
* total_players_min - 2
* total_players_max - 8

Commit message:

Fix monster values for player to main connections

README.md, after:

# heroes_map_generator
Generates random templates for Heroes 3 HotA map generator for a more 'random' user experience

# To Do
- Generate initial values for zones - DONE
- Generate initial values for connections - DONE
- Generate starting areas for players or players + AI - DONE
    - add computer player zones into main graph - DONE
- Generate fair main grid - DONE
- Print template to file - DONE
- generate template values
- starting zones connect to main branch using same node - DONE
- starting zones and AI zones in balanced mode use same Link attributes - DONE
- Global AI players use fair Links DONE
- balanced mode has a chance for a star NODE connecting to all base fragments
- starting areas for Humans - add rules for origin castle (same/different)
- change monster strenght for zones that connect with JUNCTION - DONE

# Bugs

- is_player_to_main in add_link method in graph is not triggering the right monster values in parameters

# Variables description

## Nodes

### mines

Next batch of variables:

wood_min
mercury_min
ore_min
sulfur_min
crystals_min
gems_min
gold_min


wood_min and ore_min should be 0 by default and set to 1 for START type of zones
if any zone has neutral_towns_min > 0 then 50% chance that wood_min and ore_min is 1, otherwise 0. if a zone has neutral_castle_min > 0 then it always has wood_min and ore_min set to 1

for mercury_min, sulfur_min, crystals_min and gems_min - by default all of these are 0. 10% for one of them to be 1 for START zone. 25% for NEUTRAL zone that one of them has a value of 1. In TREASURE ZONE each one of them has 20% chance to be 1, but no more than 2 in total. In SUPER_TREASURE, each one has 25% chance to be 1 with no total limit.

gold_min - 0 by default. 5% to be 1 for NEUTRAL zone, 10%  to be 1 in TREASURE zone and 20% in SUPER_TREASURE zone

All density variables should be set to '0':
wood_density
mercury_density
ore_density
sulfur_density
crystals-density
gems_density
gold_density

### terrain and monsters

Another batch of parameters:
terrain_match_town - 1 in START zone, in any other zone, if neutral_towns_min > 0 or neutral_castle_min > 0 it has 80% chance to be 1, else 0
allowed_terrain[1-10] - ten variables for possible terrain types, placeholder for future use. All set to 1
monster_strenght - possible values are 0-3. Should be 2 for START zone. 80% to be 2 in TREASURE zone, otherwise 3. 70% to be 2 in SUPER_TREASURE zone, otherwise 3. Always 2 in JUNCTION zone
monster_match_town - 0 in START zone, in any other zone, if neutral_towns_min > 0 or neutral_castle_min > 0 it has 10% chance to be 1, else 0
allowed_monster_type[1-12] - twelve variables for possible allowed monster types. Placeholder for future use. All set to 1

### treasures

* treasure1_low - 500 for START and NEUTRAL zone, 3000 for TREASURE, 10000 for SUPER_TREASURE
* treasure1_high - 3000 for START and NEUTRAL zone, 6000 for TREASURE, 15000 for SUPER_TREASURE
* treasure1_density - 9
* treasure2_low - 3000 for START and NEUTRAL zone, 10000 for TREASURE, 15000 for SUPER_TREASURE
* treasure2_high - 6000 for START and NEUTRAL zone, 15000 for TREASURE, 20000 for SUPER_TREASURE
* treasure2_density - 6
* treasure3_low - 10000 for START and NEUTRAL zone, 15000  for TREASURE, 20000 for SUPER_TREASURE
* treasure3_high - 15000 for START and NEUTRAL zone, 20000 for TREASURE, 30000 for SUPER_TREASURE
* treasure3_density - set to 1

in case of JUNCTION type - assign values as if it was NEUTRAL or TREASURE (50/50 chance)

All low/high values above should be slightly randomized (+/- 10%, but should remain integers)

* zone_placement - set to 0
* objects_section - should be empty

### Misc

final batch of parameters for zones:

* UI_position_[1-4] - 4 values that can be negative or positive float type. Placeholder for future use. Set to empty.
* zone_faction_force_neutral - set to empty
* allow_non_coherent_road - 75% to be empty, otherwise set to 'x'
* zone_repulsion - set to empty 
* town_type_rules - set to empty
* monster_disposition - 25% to be 1, 50% to be 2, 25% to be 3
* custom_monster_disposition - set to empty
* joining_percent - set to 1
* join_only_for_money - set to 'x'
* shipyard_min - 10% to be 1 in SUPER_TREASURE zone, empty in all other cases
* shipyard_density - set to empty
* terrain_type_rule - set to empty
* customized_allowed_factions_bitmap - set to empty
* zone_faction_rule - set to empty
* max_road_block_value - 4000 for START zone, otherwise empty

monster_disposition, joining_percent and join_only_for_money variables should have an option to be provided manually during script execution - in such case the provided value should overwrite the default value provided here

## Links

Variables in order of appearance:
'-' means empty (/t) value
Starts right after Zones section, on 2nd line of Zones

* Zone A (int)
* Zone B (int)
* guard_strenght - integer. If one of the zones is START zone then: 3000 - 4000 if the other one is NEUTRAL or JUNCTION, 5000 - 7000 if TREASURE, 8000-12000 if SUPER_TREASURE. It should also be +3000 if the connection happens to be between player starting area and main part of the map if possible. 
for all other connection between zones. Rule of thumb is: the more valuable the ZONES, the higher number, and it should be especially high if one of the zone is NEUTRAL and the other is SUPER_TREASURE. Max value should be 25000 
* connection_type_wide - always empty if one of the zones is SUPER_TREASURE, otherwise, 90% to be empty, otherwise '1'
* connection_type_borderguard - always empty
* roads - '+' if one of the zones is START, otherwise 75% chance to be '+', 25% to be '-'
* placement_hint - should be set to 'random'
* connection_type_fictive - always empty
* monolith_repulsion - 20% to be 1, otherwise empty
* human_players_min - 1
* human_players_max - 8
* total_players_min - 2
* total_players_max - 8
